All right, next item.
KIRA:
Item seven, warbird repair
and maintenance. Senator?
have continually been delayed
Repairs on our ships
and Federation vessels.
in favor of Klingon
The Dividices and the Genorex
have been waiting
almost three weeks
while more than
a dozen Klingon ships
have been given
first priority.
Well, I make up
the repair schedule
according to my assessment
of which ships have
the greatest need.
Odd that the Klingons
seem to always have
the greatest need.
They are usually
more damaged
because Klingon warships
are relentless
in pressing home
their attack.
"Reckless" would be
another way of putting it.
The fight must be
taken to the enemy.
We cannot win this war...
All right, we're not here
to debate combat tactics.
Chief, how soon
can you have those warbirds
into a docking bay?
Well, I suppose I could
bring them in tomorrow.
But that would mean delaying
repairs to the Hornet
and the Rotarran.
Somebody's going
to have to explain
to General Martok
why his flagship was bumped.
Worf, you just volunteered
for that assignment.
This brings up the
question of shore leave.
At the moment,
we have the crews
from two Klingon ships
on the station.
I'd rather not have that
many Klingons and Romulans
on the Promenade
at the same time.
We'll forgo shore leave
until the Klingons depart.
Our soldiers
are professionals.
They're here to fight
not to get drunk
in Quark's.
That's it for today then.
KIRA: All right.
Same time next week?
Oh, sorry, Senator.
You'll be attending
that conference
on Romulus,
won't you?
Yes, but Subcommander Velal
will be here in my place.
Fine. Have
a safe trip.
Thank you.
( chuckling ):
Ah, yes.
Romulus...
how well I remember it.
You'll find the predominant
color to be gray--
the buildings, the
clothes, the people.
Did you know that the Romulan
heart itself is gray?
It's true.
And altogether appropriate
for such an unimaginative race.
I take it
you didn't enjoy
your brief stint
on Romulus.
You were... posing
as a gardener, weren't you?
It was one of
the few instances
where my cover
was more enjoyable
than the actual assignment.
What was the
assignment anyway?
I'm afraid
I can't talk about that.
Back to the subject
at hand.
What would your role be
at this conference?
Well, I'll be giving a talk
on Dominion biogenic weapons
chairing a seminar
on ketracel-white
and attending a meeting
on a proposal
Federation hospital ships
to transfer 25
over to
Romulan control.
How dull.
Sorry to
disappoint.
Admiral Ross and his staff
will be discussing the
"exciting" military issues.
I see.
I-I trust that
Starfleet Intelligence
will be sending
someone along
to make good use
of this opportunity.
What do you mean?
Well, isn't it obvious?
This is a golden
opportunity
to gather intelligence
on Romulan intentions
and military capabilities.
They're our allies, Garak.
And with any luck
this could be the beginning
of an entirely new friendship
between our peoples.
The eternal optimist.
Guilty as charged.
How sad.
I must tell you,
I'm disappointed
at hearing you mouth
the usual platitudes
of peace and friendship
regarding an implacable foe
like the Romulans.
But I live in hope
that one day
you'll come to see
this universe
for what it truly is
rather than what
you'd wish it to be.
Well, I shall endeavor
to become more cynical
with each passing day.
Look gift horses
squarely in the mouth
and find clouds in
every silver lining.
If only you meant it.
Lights.
Sloan.
Hello, Doctor.
It's good to see you.
I hope you're
well rested.
an assignment for you.
Section 31 has
You're taking quite a risk.
I could have a security team
here in 30 seconds.
I suspect
you'd be unable to communicate
outside of this room.
with anyone
I could scream for help.
Possible
but uncharacteristic.
I mean, screaming for help--
too undignified for you.
that's... that's
But don't let me stop you.
I enjoy being wrong.
What do you want?
I told you.
You have an assignment.
I don't work for you.
You passed the test.
into the organization.
You were accepted
I didn't ask to be accepted.
You were, nevertheless.
And now it's time to go to work.
I'm sure you're
dying to know
what your mission is
but you won't give me
the satisfaction
of admitting it.
So I'll just tell you.
Lucky me.
is extremely interested
Section 31
in this conference of yours.
However, the Tal Shiar
the security arrangements
will be handling
virtually no chance
so we'll have
of using any technical assets
to gather intelligence.
As a result, we'll be forced
to rely on organic assets...
like you.
Your mission
is to gather data
about the Romulan
leadership.
In essence, we want you
of their government.
to take the pulse
No pun intended.
You want me to spy
on an ally?
To "evaluate" an ally.
And a temporary ally at that.
Now, I say that, because
when the war is over
the following will happen
in short order--
the Dominion will be forced
back to the Gamma Quadrant.
The Cardassian Empire
will be occupied.
The Klingon Empire
will spend the next
ten years recovering
from the war and won't pose
a serious threat to anyone.
That leaves two powers to vie
for control of the Quadrant--
the Federation and the Romulans.
This war isn't over
planning for the next.
and you're already
Well put.
is equally succinct.
I hope your report
How many times do I have
to tell you, Sloan?
I don't work for you.
You will.
It's in your nature.
who loves secrets--
You are a man
medical, personal, fictional.
And I am a man of secrets.
You want to know what I know
and the only way
to do that
is to accept the assignment.
Whoa! Easy, Julian.
What's going on?
all the security logs.
Odo's checked
There's no indication
of how Sloan got aboard
or where he went.
I can't say I'm surprised.
From what we've seen of them
Section 31 is very meticulous
in covering its tracks.
I had a conversation with
Admiral Ross this afternoon.
He and I both agree
that the Romulan conference
is too important to cancel.
What about me?
Starfleet Command
has promised
to send the expert
on Dominion biogenic weapons
and ketracel-white
to the conference.
Since that's you, you go.
And we want you to carry out
your assignment.
Make a few discreet observations
on the Romulan leadership
and then wait for Sloan
to contact you again.
Somehow, I don't
think giving Sloan
any information
is a good idea.
That was my instinct as well,
but after talking to Ross
I think we might have
an opportunity here
we can turn to our advantage.
Officially, Starfleet Command
has said that they are appalled
at the very notion
that an organization like
Section 31 might exist
and that they plan
of this entire business.
to get to the bottom
And unofficially?
pushed the investigation aside.
They have quietly
don't take Section 31 seriously
Which means either they
Command is protecting them.
or... someone at Starfleet
Either way, we now have a chance
to get someone inside
and I think I want to take it.
So you want me to play along?
to work for Sloan after all?
Pretend that I've decided
Exactly.
When he contacts you
to find out
at the conference
what you learned
you've reluctantly come around
make it seem like
to his way of thinking.
that he has seduced you
Let him believe
into helping him.
Well, that shouldn't
be too difficult.
Sloan thinks I'm
already so tempted
that I barely can see straight.
Well, listen, I better pack.
The Bellerophon leaves
in three hours.
One more thing, Doctor.
Remember this isn't a game.
Section 31 is very dangerous.
If Sloan even suspects
that you are really
working for us...
I understand.
Good hunting.
A glass of
Romulan ale, Doctor?
Thank you, Senator.
The trading embargo
has been officially lifted
if you were wondering.
It hadn't crossed
my mind, actually.
To one of the many benefits
of the alliance.
( coughing )
Need a medical
team, sir?
No, thank you.
your first glass of Romulan ale.
Don't tell me this is
Well, it was...
( coughing )
ille... illegal.
That never stopped
most of your colleagues.
ROSS:
I know--
I was probably
one of the few officers
in the fleet
who didn't indulge
occasionally.
( coughs )
Would you like
something else?
No, no, I'll manage.
That's the spirit, sir.
Never say die.
What an odd expression.
What does it mean?
It's a line
from an old
Earth poem.
Forgive me for
interrupting.
I couldn't help overhearing
and etymology is
one of my hobbies.
The, uh, phrase "never
say die" is originally
from a 19th
century poem
based on Shakespeare's
Merchant of Venice.
Now, it's since passed
into the vernacular
as a, as an exhortation
never to give up
no matter the cost.
Interesting.
Wendell Greer,
Assistant Director
UFP Department
of Cartography.
It's a pleasure.
Admiral William Ross,
Senator Cretak.
Admiral... Senator.
And Dr. Julian Bashir.
Ah, the physician
from Deep Space Nine.
I was hoping
to meet you.
I have so
many questions
about the Bajoran sector--
navigational anomalies,
the transport patterns...
Could you spare a moment?
Unless I'm interrupting.
Not at all.
Try to play your cards
a little closer
to your vest, Doctor.
You're lucky
they didn't see
that look of shock
on your face.
You managed to get yourself
attached to this delegation.
Why do you need me?
All in due time.
Now you have a lot
of work to do
before we arrive
at Romulus.
There's a padd in your
quarters-- read it.
I'll join you at 2200.
Well, Mr. Greer
certainly has
his ducks in a row.
According to
the Department
of Cartography
he's been a low-level
bureaucrat for
almost 15 years.
Well, it doesn't
surprise me
he has a solid
cover story, sir.
But I think it's
too dangerous
to allow him
to participate
in the conference
or even set foot on Romulus.
We don't know
what he's up to.
On the other hand, if
we move against him now
we lose any hope of
penetrating Section 31.
His access at this
conference will be limited
to a few low-level
briefings and seminars.
It shouldn't be too hard
keeping tabs on him.
If Sloan's here...
it suggests something
more important
than a simple
intelligence-gathering mission.
He's up to something
and it's imperative that we
know what that something is.
We go forward.
SLOAN:
Next.
BASHIR:
Neral-- formerly
Proconsul
now Praetor of the
Romulan Star Empire.
Neral's ascension
to the top post
was confirmed
by the Continuing Committee
a little over a year ago.
was killed in a Klingon raid
His immediate family
approximately 25 years ago.
sociology and archaeology.
His interests include
His favorite food
is Delvan pudding
and his pet set'leth's name
is... Pensho.
Very good.
Total recall is a useful
attribute for an operative.
Koval-- chairman
of the Tal Shiar.
Section 31 believes that he
was involved in the death
of Vice Admiral
Fujisaki last year
but there's no proof.
The proof is buried
somewhere in Koval's
personal database
out of our reach for now.
which puts it
But believe me, Doctor,
the Deputy Chief
of Starfleet Intelligence
of food poisoning.
doesn't just die
I have to give him
credit, though.
It was a textbook operation.
No sign of foul play
and certainly no sign
of Romulan involvement.
It was very tidy.
Koval's political status?
Ambiguous.
He hasn't been elevated
to the Continuing Committee
which is usually a given
for the head of the Tal Shiar.
His nomination has
probably been held up
because of his opposition
to the Federation alliance
which is supported
by the majority
on the Committee.
Which, in turn, opens the door
for your friend, Senator Cretak.
She's an advocate
of the alliance
and she's been lobbying
for this open seat.
There is another rumor
about Koval
which is not contained
in his file.
something called Tuvan Syndrome.
We've heard he's ill--
I'm familiar with it.
It's a neurological disease
which affects mainly Vulcans,
Romulans, and Rigelians.
and incurable at present.
It's degenerative,
If Koval is ill,
he'll try to hide it.
It's a weakness, and
one that could hamper
his chances of being
appointed to the Committee.
Is that what I'm here for?
A diagnosis?
What's the matter, Sloan?
have its own doctors?
Doesn't Section 31
Our physicians weren't
genetically enhanced.
They need equipment
to make a diagnosis--
equipment that the
Romulans won't permit
at this conference.
of making a diagnosis
I'm incapable
by simply looking at a man.
Oh, your genetically-
enhanced friends
determined that Gul Damar
killed a woman
give a political speech.
just by watching him
I'm sure you can do
better than that.
You're going to make a move
against Koval, aren't you?
You're going to find
a way to use his illness
to keep him off
the Committee.
I suppose it would be
naive of me to point out
in the internal affairs
that interfering
of a sovereign power
by the Federation Charter.
is explicitly forbidden
Without confirming or denying
your speculation
that if Koval comes to power
I will say
it'd be a disaster
for the Federation.
He'll argue
for the Romulans
to abrogate the alliance
and negotiate a separate peace
with the Dominion
and I don't think
I need to tell you
to the course of the war.
what that would do
You can't justify that
by manipulating...
Let's make a deal, Doctor--
I'll spare you the ends-
justify-the-means speech
and you spare me
the we-must-do-
what's-right speech.
You and I are not
going to see
eye to eye on this subject
we stop discussing it.
so I suggest
This mission is reconnaissance.
We are not going
to be called upon
to do anything
other than that.
Now, why don't you
get some rest?
We'll be in orbit
of Romulus by 0600
and you will need to have
your wits about you.
( door opens, closes )
Here you are, sir.
Dr. Julian Bashir?
Yes.
I understand
you were the officer
who first identified
the biogenic weapon
known as the Quickening.
That's right--
on Boranis III,
in the Gamma Quadrant.
I don't believe
we've been introduced.
Koval.
Well, it's a pleasure
to meet you.
Why?
Well, you've got me there.
It's just a simple
form of expression, I suppose.
And like most
human expressions
completely devoid
of meaning.
Can the Dominion's
Quickening virus
be replicated?
We've had a little difficulty
in, uh, recreating
the exact RNA sequence
of the virus
which is why we've been
unable to develop a vaccine.
However, there are alternate
methods of making vaccines...
I'm not interested
in the vaccine.
I'm interested in the virus.
Do you know how
to introduce
the Quickening
into a population?
Basically.
Good.
I look forward to
hearing your lecture.
You're going to
make a very fine
operative, Doctor.
I beg your pardon?
The Chairman
of the Tal Shiar
rarely speaks with
anyone in public--
much less someone
wearing that uniform.
Starfleet Intelligence
should recruit you
immediately.
What makes you think
I'm not working
for them already?
Somehow, it wouldn't
surprise me
if half the people
in this room
turned out to be
operatives.
You are joking.
It may be impolitic
to say this
but there are those
who believe
the alliance
is merely a...
momentary truce.
And are you one of them?
Well, I could ask you
the same thing.
Well, in my case,
it's a firm "no"
but you've answered
my question--
with a question.
I try not to predict
the future.
What about Chairman Koval?
You tell me.
You just spoke with him.
That's more than I've
done in six months.
I take it you two
don't get along.
We have different views.
Which are?
State secrets.
( chuckles ):
Naturally.
inhabitant of Boranis III.
This is an adult female
BASHIR:
are typical of a humanoid
The markings on the face
who's been infected
by the disease
but who has not yet entered
the terminal stage.
In this next photograph
you can tell by the necrotic
nature of the lesions
that the patient has, indeed,
entered the terminal stage
of the disease.
This is also marked
in leukocyte production.
by an increase
WOMAN: Thank you, Doctor.
MAN: Excellent.
Thank you.
Very enlightening.
You almost made it
comprehensible.
Next time, I'll
do the lecture
with hand puppets
just for you.
Thank you very much.
I'm glad to see
you still have
your sense of humor.
I trust you noticed who was
sitting in the front row.
Yes. He came to see me this
morning between sessions.
He wanted to know more
about the Quickening--
specifically, if I knew
how to replicate the virus
and how to introduce it
into a population.
What did you think
of his health?
Didn't you hear
what I just said?
I heard you.
Koval wants to get his
hands on the Quickening.
That's not news to me
that the head
of the Tal Shiar
is interested in
biogenic weapons.
Pull your head out of the sand
and take a look around, Doctor.
These are not nice people
we're dealing with here.
Now answer my question.
His eyelids were
slightly displaced.
He had a noticeable weakness
in the facial muscles--
probably the result
of a compromised
neuromuscular function--
and his respiration
was somewhat irregular.
Bottom line.
He may have Tuvan Syndrome.
But if he does,
it's in the very early stages.
How long does he have?
If his case
fits the profile
he will start experiencing
a loss of motor skills
in ten to fifteen years--
with a life expectancy
in the 20 to 25-year range.
Are there instances
in which the disease
accelerates
without warning?
It happens, but in less than
five percent of the cases.
Is there anything that could
trigger the acceleration?
You know... I don't know
what you're asking me.
Never mind.
Thank you, Doctor.
You've been
very helpful.
This is unbelievable.
Let's put aside for the moment
that he's contemplating
the murder
of a high-ranking official.
What in the hell
makes him think
that the next head
of the Tal Shiar
would be any better
than Koval?
Well, Sloan's more
concerned with who gets
the empty seat on the
Continuing Committee.
He's hoping that
Cretak gets that.
Well, I sort of agree
with him there.
Cretak, for all
her abrasiveness
is at least a patriot.
What makes her any
different from Koval?
If you saw the reports
from Starfleet Intelligence
that I see, you would
never ask that question.
Koval would like
nothing better
than to see the Romulan
banner waving over Earth.
Believe me, Doctor,
Chairman Koval is not someone
we want to see
at the Praetor's right hand.
I'll have Sloan confined
to his quarters immediately
but that may not
solve our problem.
Sir?
Has it occurred to you
that you and Sloan may not
be the only ones here
working for Section 31?
For all we know,
he has a confederate
somewhere in the delegation.
Sloan did say
that our mission
would be strictly
reconnaissance--
that we wouldn't be called
upon to do anything else.
That could suggest
another operative--
someone whose mission isn't
limited to reconnaissance.
If that's true,
it could be anyone--
even a member of
the Bellerophon crew.
Or a Romulan.
What?
Sir, I believe Sloan
has an accomplice
here... on Romulus.
What makes you say that?
Two things.
too much information
First, Sloan has
on the inner workings
of their government--
too many insights
into their
political process.
Second,
Sloan's plan is to kill Koval
while making it appear to be
an accelerated case
of Tuvan Syndrome.
Now, the only way to do that
would be to expose Koval
to a short burst
of nadion radiation.
maneuver him near a phaser relay
The simplest plan would be to
and surreptitiously
irradiate him.
Now, since I doubt very much
that Sloan is going to have
the chance to do that
it stands to reason someone else
is going to have to.
A Romulan?
Exactly.
Sir, Sloan may have already
gotten things underway.
We have to warn them.
And how am I supposed to explain
Section 31 to the Romulans?
All hell would break loose
if they hear
that there's a rogue
Federation agency running around
plotting assassinations.
the alliance down.
It could bring
Besides, all we have
is speculation
at this point.
Admiral...
The answer is no.
After I have
Sloan arrested
I'll break radio silence
and inform Starfleet Command
of the situation.
Your orders are to sit tight
and do nothing
until you hear from me.
Aye, sir.
( door opens, closes )
MALE:
I don't know.
Jepella said she went
in to deliver a report
and found him slumped
over his desk.
Do they have any idea
what happened?
Dr. Frame said it looked
like an aneurysm
but they're still
running tests.
An aneurysm.
I saw the Admiral
this morning.
He looked fine.
the way it happens.
They say that's
Which Admiral are
you talking about?
Uh, Admiral Ross, sir.
He collapsed
at his desk.
Where is he?
Sick Bay.
( female laughing )
Hey.
aboard the Bellerophon.
I can't trust anybody
And I can't contact DS9.
For security reasons, there's
been a communications blackout.
Senator, I have no one
else to turn to.
I need your help.
To do what?
I have reason to believe
that Sloan has an accomplice
within the Romulan government.
Someone who's going to help him
carry out this assassination.
Koval has been saying
there's a traitor in the Senate.
Someone working for
Starfleet Intelligence.
Section 31 isn't part
of Starfleet Intelligence.
They are Federation
citizens working
to advance your interests.
That makes them
your responsibility.
You're absolutely right.
That's why I'm doing
everything I can to stop them.
I'm trying to convince Sloan
that Koval doesn't
have Tuvan Syndrome
but he may have already asked
his accomplice to proceed.
So if we want to be sure
to stop this assassination
we have to find Sloan's
Romulan accomplice.
And you expect me
to find this traitor.
Sloan said something about Koval
having a personal database.
It stands to reason
that it contains a list
of potential suspects.
Now, is there any possible way
you can get me
a copy of this database
so that I can run
an analysis of...
You are asking me to hand
over secret documents.
I'm asking you to put aside
three centuries of mistrust
between our peoples
and help me stop a murder.
Senator, if we can't reach out
and bridge the gulf
that is between us
if we can't trust each other,
a man will die
and we will be
partially responsible.
I need your help.
Please.
You wanted to
see me, Doctor?
Yes.
I'm not convinced that Koval is
suffering from Tuvan Syndrome.
His symptoms could
be the result
of any number of different
health problems.
You didn't say that before.
Well, I'm not an expert
on Romulan physiology.
Most of my knowledge
on Tuvan Syndrome
comes from studies
done on Vulcan patients.
I thought Vulcans
were virtually identical.
and Romulans
Yes, but there are
some important
genetic differences.
And the more I study
the available data
on Romulan physiology
the less sure I am that
my diagnosis was correct.
How could you find out
for sure?
The best way would be
to do an examination
but I hardly think
he'll agree to that.
What if you obtained
a sample of his skin cells?
Could you run an analysis?
Probably.
But how do you propose...
We'll treat your palm
with a microcellular adhesive.
The next time
you shake his hand
you'll get your sample.
All right.
Mr. Chairman.
What a pleasure
to see you again.
I'd be very happy to resume
our discussion on the Quickening
before this conference
is adjourned.
I believe you answered
all my questions, Doctor.
Well, I'm glad
to have been able to help.
Doctor, I would
like to have
a word with you
on another matter.
In private.
Of course.
I believe
the Lecture Hall's empty.
We have other,
more comfortable
facilities available,
if you please.
Sit down.
will be sitting in that chair
I can assure you that you
one way or the other, Doctor.
Now we'll have our private talk.
What shall we talk about?
Why you're really on Romulus.
Who you're working for,
and, of course
who's helping you.
Don't worry...
with pointless questions.
I won't waste your time
( grunting )
This can be painful or not.
That's up to you, Doctor.
Either way, I will know
what you know.
It appears that your brain's
neurocellular structure
is not susceptible to
our scanning techniques.
Evidently a result of
the genetic enhancements
made to your
parietal cortex.
Sorry.
I do have other methods
at my disposal
but it would save everyone
a great deal of trouble
if you would simply tell
me what I want to know.
You haven't asked me
any questions yet.
I think you know what
I'm interested in.
Who are you working for?
Why are you here?
Bring him.
Dr. Julian Bashir.
ROMULAN:
You are appearing before
the Continuing Committee
of the Romulan people.
Any statements will be made
part of the official record.
is charged with attempting
Senator Cretak
to access a
Tal Shiar database
without proper
authorization.
The Senator has told
a remarkable story.
the Committee
Since you are a key figure
in her story
we are most eager
to hear your
version of events.
What I am about to say
may be shocking.
It may even damage the relations
between our
two peoples
but it's the truth.
I became aware of a plot
A few days ago,
to assassinate Chairman Koval.
It was conceived of
by a man known to me
only as "Sloan."
He works for an organization
called Section 31.
as protecting the interests
They see themselves
of the Federation
although they
have absolutely
no official standing.
Once I realized what Sloan
was attempting to do
I contacted Senator Cretak
in order to enlist her
aid in stopping him.
Why her?
I had no one else
to turn to.
I was unable to contact
Deep Space Nine
and I couldn't trust anybody
aboard the Bellerophon.
But you felt that you could
trust a Romulan Senator?
Yes.
For all our differences,
I do respect her.
Continue.
extremely complicated
For reasons that are
I came to believe
that there's a traitor
in your government
working for Section 31.
I asked the Senator
to obtain the database
so that we could
expose this person
and prevent the
assassination.
Senator Cretak,
PRAETOR:
why didn't you come to me
with this information?
I was afraid that if word
of this... "plot" got out
it would destroy
the alliance.
I decided to keep
my own counsel.
I regret that decision.
As well you
should, Kimara.
It's an interesting story
but it's not
the whole story.
If I may be permitted
to bring in another witness?
( com beep )
Bring in prisoner 527.
Praetor
this is the man
known as "Sloan."
Unlike the Doctor,
his mind is
quite susceptible
to our data-retrieval methods.
Under questioning,
he has confirmed
much of what the Doctor
and the Senator have told you
with one
important exception--
there is no Section 31.
Sloan, in fact, works
for Starfleet Intelligence.
Far from being the master
of a rogue agency
he is simply one
of many operatives
in the employ
of the Federation.
He's had a long career.
Most of which
is still unknown to us.
However, there is one
interesting element
that we do know--
he was the protégé
of the late
Vice Admiral Fujisaki.
Sloan did not take
the death of his mentor well.
He came to believe
he was murdered
by the Tal Shiar.
In his eyes,
the assassination
of a Starfleet Admiral was
"stepping over the line."
Isn't that the phrase?
After Fujisaki's death, he
was confronted with a dilemma.
How could he seek vengeance
without violating
the Federation's laws?
His answer was
to invent Section 31--
a rogue organization
that answered to no one.
If they killed
the head
of the Tal Shiar,
Starfleet Intelligence
would be held
blameless.
As the Committee knows
I have been diagnosed
with Tuvan Syndrome.
Sloan became aware
of my condition
and hoped to make my death
look like a sudden
acceleration of the disease.
To do that,
he needed a doctor.
Sloan arranged to recruit
Dr. Bashir into Section 31.
After that, Sloan
bided his time
and waited for an opportunity
to present itself.
He found one when he learned
of this conference.
He then arranged
for Bashir to be invited.
Everything was
going perfectly
but then he made
a fatal mistake.
to Romulus himself.
He decided to come
He was unaware
that his identity
had become known to us.
Once we recognized him
in the delegation
we knew immediately
that an intelligence
operation was underway.
What I don't understand
is... why?
Why did you come here and take
the risk of being discovered?
I had to make sure
nothing went wrong
and I wanted to watch you die...
You broke the cardinal
rule of our profession.
You allowed business
to become personal.
So there was an
assassination plan?
Most definitely.
of the Doctor and the Senator
As to the involvement
Dr. Bashir may have
intended to kill me
or he may have
intended to save me.
There is no way to
know for certain.
As for Senator Cretak
we all know she's
an ambitious woman.
It is entirely
possible, she would
especially if it meant
welcome my death,
to the Continuing Committee
her being elevated
in my place.
That is a lie, Koval.
I was trying to save your life.
Well, then, you're
simply a fool.
You let a Starfleet Intelligence
officer manipulate you
into committing
an act of treason.
It is the finding
PRAETOR:
of this Committee that
Senator Cretak has conspired
to commit treason
against the state.
Sentence to be determined
at a later date.
Dr. Bashir will
be returned
to the Bellerophon.
Mr. Sloan...
is remanded to the custody
of the Tal Shiar
for further
interrogation.
No!
( door chimes )
Come in.
Admiral.
Doctor.
Feeling, uh, better, sir?
Much.
Dr. Frame tells me
that I should take it easy
for a few days,
but, uh... paperwork
waits for no man.
What can I
do for you?
I have a question.
Where's Sloan?
Sloan's dead.
Admiral... where's Sloan?
If we're going to have
this discussion
then it's off the record.
But before I answer your
question, answer mine.
How did you know?
The man Koval described
was not the same man
who recruited me
into Section 31.
Anyone clever enough
to pull the wool
so completely over my eyes
wouldn't have
been caught
by the Romulans
so easily.
There had to be
another explanation.
And then I remembered
that you were the one
who planted the idea
in my head
that Sloan had an accomplice.
You were the one who didn't
want to tell the Romulans
an assassination plot.
that there was
who issued the orders
You were the one
contacting Deep Space Nine.
preventing me from
And when the time
came to arrest Sloan
you conveniently had an
aneurysm... leaving me alone
with no one to turn to
for help, except Cretak
and as I realized
your involvement
the rest began to
fall into place.
Where is he?
I don't know.
But he's alive...
isn't he?
He was supposed
to be beamed away
a split second
before the phaser beam hit him.
Whether it worked or not,
I couldn't say.
How long has Koval
been working
for Starfleet?
He's been providing
the Federation
with critical military
intelligence for over a year.
When he started working
with Section 31, I don't know.
But in any case,
we have our mole--
working for us
at the top levels
of Romulan government.
Good for us.
And what about your friend,
Senator Cretak?
What's going
to happen to her?
Dismissed from
the Senate...
definitely.
Imprisoned,
most likely.
Executed?
I hope not.
You set her up!
She was an innocent woman
and you let Sloan destroy her.
Why?
She believed
in the alliance.
She was on our side.
No, she wasn't.
I told you before, Julian--
she's a patriot,
which means if it serves
the interests
of the Romulans
to negotiate a separate
peace with the Dominion,
Cretak would push that option.
And believe me, the Dominion
would like nothing more
than to make a deal with
the Romulans right now.
So, Koval becomes your guarantee
that that does not happen
and as a man
who was nearly killed
for his anti-Federation
activities
his recommendation
to stay in the war
becomes all
the more convincing.
That's the general idea.
And how long
have you worked
for Section 31?
I don't.
Oh, just a temporary
alliance, is it?
Something like that.
You don't see anything wrong
with what happened, do you?
I don't like it
but I've spent the last
year and a half of my life
ordering young men and
young women to die.
I like that even less.
That's a glib answer
and a cheap way
to avoid the fact
that you've trampled
on the very thing
that those young
men and women
are out there dying to protect!
Does that not mean
anything to you?!
Inter arma
enim silent leges.
"In time of war,
the law falls silent."
Cicero.
So, is that what
we have become--
a 24th-century Rome
driven by nothing other
than the certainty
that Caesar can
do no wrong?!
This conversation
never happened.
You're dismissed.
Good evening.
Are you expecting applause?
Have you come to take a bow?
I just wanted to say thank you.
For what?
Allowing you to manipulate
me so completely?
For being a decent human being.
in the first place, Doctor.
That's why we selected you
who wanted to play the game
We needed somebody
but who'd only go so far.
you stood your ground.
When the time came,
You did the right thing.
You reached out
to an enemy.
You told her the truth.
You tried to
stop a murder.
men like you, Doctor.
The Federation needs
Men of conscience.
Men of principle.
Men who can sleep at night.
You're also
the reason
Section 31 exists.
Someone has to protect
men like you
that doesn't share your sense
from a universe
of right
and wrong.
Should I feel sorry for you?
Should I be weeping
over the burden
you're forced to carry
in order to protect
the rest of us?
to know you, Doctor.
It is an honor
Good night.
( door opens, closes )
Bashir to Security.
Odo, here.
Never mind.
My mistake.
( sighs )